{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg932\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green45\blue53;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c17647\c23137\c27059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\parhyphenfactor20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs57\fsmilli28800 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 FINM 32700 1 (Spring 2024) Advanced Computing for Finance\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 I \'96 Course description\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This course is intended to teach programming concepts and techniques to students desiring to work in the financial sector. At the end of this class, students will have the necessary programming skills to be successful in their daily activities. We will cover the required skills to work as a quantitative researcher: advanced data structures (STL, Boost), parallel programming, inter-process communication, linear algebra computation, simulation and modeling. We will work on several projects aimed at building several trading strategies using C++. Classes are taught using a combination of lectures and in class hands-on lab sessions.\'a0\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 II \'96 Objectives After taking this course, you should be able to:\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Code advanced C++ code\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Handle unit testing to ensure that you have a reliable code\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Understand the design of a trading system and the microstructure of the market\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Using math library to perform advanced calculation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Use Boost and STL libraries to write high-frequency trading code\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 III - Course Organization\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This course meets once a week for lectures and once a week for an optional TA session. Even if recorded, attendance in class is strongly encouraged. Most of the coursework revolves around 1 programming assignment, as the primary focus will be for students to code. There will be one Final Exam (last week of the spring quarter).\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Grading The final grade will be based on the following:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Weekly Programming assignments: 20%\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Course Project: 20%\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Midterm Exam: 25%\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Final Exam: 30%\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 5% Participation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Late Submission\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Prorated points will be applied according to the number of late days. 1 day late: 75% of the grade will be considered. 2 days late: 50% of the grade will be considered. 3 days late: 25% of the grade will be considered. After 3 days, no assignment will be accepted.\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 IV - Exam\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We will be giving a midterm exam at Week X and a final exam at Week Y (to be defined for both of them). The final exam is worth 30% of the grade. The final exam will be an open-book online exam on the whole content of the class. For both exams, you will have access to code a few questions related to the content of the lecture and the project. The exams are on site.\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 V - Programming Assignments\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We will assign simple written problems at the end of each lecture that will be due the following week. The goal of these assignments is to make you understand the course better. Some content can be hard to appreciate in class, and we encourage you to work them at home the same day. They will constitute 20% of the course grade.\'a0\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 VI - Class project\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We will assign a class project over the course of the term. It is an individual assignment. The goal of this assignment will be to make you create your own trading strategy. It will constitute 20% of the course grade.\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 VII - Academic Honesty and Plagiarism\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://provost.uchicago.edu/handbook/clause/academic-honesty-and-plagiarism"}}{\fldrslt \cb3 \ul https://provost.uchicago.edu/handbook/clause/academic-honesty-and-plagiarism}}\
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 If you use github (or another collaborative shared system), please protect your account with a password. No students should share his/her work with other students.\'a0\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 VIII - Grading Group (% of the whole grade)\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 93-100: A\cb1 \
\cb3 90-93: A-\cb1 \
\cb3 87-90: B+\cb1 \
\cb3 83-87: B\cb1 \
\cb3 80-83: B-\cb1 \
\cb3 77-80: C+\cb1 \
\cb3 <77: Dealt on a case-by-case basis\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 The minimum for a passing grade is 55%\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 IX \'96 Books\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Reading the following books is optional:\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Effective STL, Scott Meyers\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Quantlib bibliography\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b \cb3 \'95 \'a0 \'a0Sams Teach Yourself C++ in One Hour a Day (7th Edition)\'a0
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\cb3 XX - Participation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This grade will be based on the number of question you ask, you answer on Ed, your oral participation in class and also the participation quizzes which will be provided during the class. For the quizzes, you just need to submit an answer. If this answer is not correct, you will still get the full points.\cb1 \
\cb3 XXI \'96 Course Schedules\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Topic 1: Introduction to C++\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Why learning C++? o History of the language o What is different from the other languages? o Description of the environment (Linux, Windows, MacOS)\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o How to compile a C++ program? o Basic sample program o C++ for computation finance\'a0\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 Topic 2: Data types and Structures\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Basic data types o Type Specifiers and Qualifiers o Constants o Structure and Class o Variables initialization o Arithmetic operators o Conditional operator o Loops o Bitwise operator o Basic functions\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 3: Input / Output\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o stdout/stderr/stdin o opening/writing a file\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 4: Memory management\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Stack vs Heap (static vs dynamic allocation) o Pointers o Calls by reference o Strings o Pointer arithmetic o Array o Multi-dimensional array o Function pointer\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 5: Object-Oriented paradigm\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Classes and objects o C++ members o Constructors and destructors o C++ header files\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 6: Advanced Object-Oriented paradigm\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Polymorphism o Function name overloading o Virtual functions o Const vs variable o Copy constructor\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 7: Template\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Introduction to C++ template o Template classes and function templates\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 8: Introduction to the STL library\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Basic types: vectors, list, deque, queue, stack, set, map o Iterators o Sequential data containers o Algorithms o Complex number\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 9: Advanced Programming\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o How to use a debugger o How to use unit testing o How to organize a code o How to use a makefile\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 10: Introduction to the Boost library\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Matrix / Vector calculation \'96 BLAS library o Continuous and Discrete statistical distribution o Random number generator\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 11: C++ examples\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Black Scholes equation o Binomial in C++ o Monte-Carlo simulation o Mean-reversal strategy\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 12: Trading Strategies in C++\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o Back testing o Signal o Building a book o High-Frequency Trading\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Topic 13: High frequency Trading\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 o C++ optimization o Packet life cycle\cb1 \
}